## anarchy in TI ##


> The flow of time in which, according to the Kantian schema, the world is constituted is without origin. This world that has lost its principle, an-archical, a world of phenomena, does not answer to the quest for the true; it suffices for enjoyment, which is self-sufficiency itself, nowise disturbed by the evasion that exteriority opposes to the quest for the true. (Levinas 1969, 65)

> The master, the coinciding of the teaching and the teacher, is not in turn a fact among others. The present of the manifestation of the master who teaches overcomes the anarchy of facts.
We must not say that language conditions consciousness, under the pre- text that it provides self-consciousness with an incarnation in the objec- tive work language would be (as the Hegelians would say). The exteriority that language, the relation with the Other, delineates is unlike the exteriority of a work, for the objective exteriority of works is already situated in the world established by language—by transcendence.
(Levinas 1969, 69-70)

> But a world absolutely silent that would not come to us from the word, be it mendacious, would be an-archic, without principle, without a beginning. Thought would strike nothing substantial. On first contact the phenomenon would degrade into appearance and in this sense would remain in equivocation, under suspicion of an evil genius...The silent world is a world that comes to us from the Other, be he an evil genius...The evil genius' lie is not an utterance opposed to the veridical word; it is in that interspace between the illusory and the serious in which a subject who doubts breathes.
(Levinas 1969, 90-91)

> Thus the silent world would be an-archic. Knowing could not com- mence in it. But already as an-archic, at the limit of non-sense, its presence to consciousness lies in its expectation for a word that does not come. Thus it appears within a relation with the Other, as the sign the Other delivers, even if he dissimulates his face, that is, declines the assistance he would have to bring to the signs he delivers, and which he delivers, consequently, in equivocation.
(Levinas 1969, 93-94)

The commencement of knowing is itself possible only if the bewitch- ment and the permanent equivocation of a world in which every ap- parition is a possible dissimulation, where commencement is wanting, is dispelled. Speech introduces a principle into this anarchy. Speech dis- enchants, for the speaking being guarantees his own apparition and comes to the assistance of himself, attends his own manifestation.
